Let me explain what we're building here. this is C++ code for my adafruit esp32 microcontroller.
 we will be controlling 4 linear actuator motors to lift my truck camper roof via two cytron MDDS30 
 motor controllers. the linear actuators have hall effect sensors too and the goal is to synchronize 
 the lift and movement of the motors as you would expect. the motors are 900lb Progressive Automation motors.  
 12 inch travel. 
 
 This micro controller will be put into a custom project box for the truck camper and it will have 4 buttons on the face.
 Before i describe the buttons I will describe the overall architecture of the program.

The core of the program is a set of states. 

First is the WAIT state. in this state the motors are not moving. 

The LIFTING state. in this state the roof is being lifted and the main point is to keep the 4 lifting motors synchronized.

The LOWERING state. in this state the roof is being lowered. again we must keep the 4 motors sychronized so the roof 
does not rack.

from the WAIT state hitting the UP_BUTTON transitions into the LIFTING state. 
from the WAIT state hitting the DOWN_BUTTON transitions into the LOWERING state. 

Releasing the UP_BUTTON transitions back to the WAIT state. 
Releasing the DOWN_BUTTON transitions back to the WAIT state. 

Now let me define some global variables that MUST BE PERSISTED to the I2C FRAM module to survive power downs:
- CURRENT_POSITION 1 through 4. There will be 4 variables, one for each of the motors
- UPPER_LIMIT. this is the upper travel limit. the LIFTING state will keep each individual
motor lifting  until individually each one's reaches the UPPER_LIMIT.

Note there is no LOWER_LIMIT stored variable, because during the limit setting procedure we will implicitly set the
lower travel limit to 0. 

The LOWERING state will keep each individual motor lowering until each inidividual one's CURRENT_POSITION 
reaches 0. 

There is a FAULT state. When the maximum and minimum CURRENT_POSITION of any two of the 4 motors is greater than a 
tunable amount MAX_DEVIATION, then enter the FAULT state. This means the only LIFTING and LOWERING states can transition
into the FAULT state. in the FAULT state no motion is allowed. The only thing you can do is to simultaneously press the 
SET_BUTTON and CLEAR_BUTTON for 5 seconds, which will clear the fault and transition back to the WAIT state.

There is the SET state, which can only be entered from the WAIT state. hitting the SET_BUTTON enters the SET state.
releasing the SET button while in the SET state transitions back to the WAIT state. While in the SET state 
hitting the DOWN_BUTTON sets the CURRENT_POSITION of all the motors to 0. While in the SET state hitting the UP_BUTTON
sets the UPPER_LIMIT  to the highest CURRENT_POSITION of the 4 motors , and the other 3 motors' CURRENT_POSITION is also
set to this value. 

In the LIFTING and LOWERING states the motion algorithm is as follows:
- we calculate the mid point position between the highest and lowest CURRENT_POSITION of the 4 motors. 
- we have a tunable throttle speed we send to the cytrons , say 50% throttle. Each motors' actual throttle is adjusted
proportionally vs how far they are from that mid point.  This is based on the MAX_DEVIATION variable. if a motor falls 
behind this floating mid point target by more than (MAX_DEVIATION / 2) the throttle is 80%. If it is ahead of that 
by more than (MAX_DEVIATION / 2) the throttle is 20%. Otherwise the throttle is proportionally adjusted between that 80%-20%
window.


The entire program runs on a super loop aiming for 50hz.
At the start of each loop we detect the states of the 4 buttons. If the state of the 4 buttons has not changed in 3 
iterations then we can be sure button presses have been de-bounced, so we determine the program state (WAIT, LIFTING 
LOWERING, SET , etc...) as explained above.  If in the interation we determine the state of the 4 buttons has not
yet settled and remained unchanged for 3 iterations then we do nothing in this iteration and simply wait out the time
and do nothing and proceed to the next iteration. 

Every iteration also write the global variables to FRAM so they are not lost. 

Every 20 iterations write the global variables and the current state to the I2C screen. there are two cores on this ESP32
so figure out a way to do this I2C stuff in a way that doesn't threaten the core motor control loop timing.

you MUST validate my states and transitions. you MUST consider that button presses in reality don't ever come simultaneously
so you have to evaluate all the different ways there might be unintended state transitions as I press button combos or 
release them in rapid sequences (physically i can't actually press and release multiple buttons at the same time, so 
you must validate that i don't have any unintended program state transitions in my design)

You MUST also research the motor controllers I use (UART i believe) and my motors (they have 2 pulsed signals each actually).
you MUST also take full advantage of the hardware pulse counters on the ESP32. 