You must write unit tests for the following concerns, with appropriate mocking and assumptions as needed:


1. you MUST test the state transitions. You must come up with a huge number of  possible button press sequences, and you must 
verify and ensure that the system behaves as expected under all circumstances and never gets into an indeterminate state. you MUST 
add comments to explain the expected behavior in each test case. You MUST very strenuously test various button press combinations 
and you MUST make sure the system behaves reasonably in all cases. you MUST specifically also take into account what a human user would 
perceive to be simultaneously pressing buttons or releasing buttons but in reality to the machine they would appear in sequence 
and since the machine wouldn't know the user's intent it must still behave in a reasonable and proper way. 


2. you MUST test the upper and lower limit functionality. You must write a test that verifies that when the upper 
limit is reached the motor stops. You must write a test that verifies that when the lower limit is reached the motor stops. You 
must write a test that verifies that if the upper limit is reached and the user tries to lift further that the motor does not move 
if the upper limit is reached and the user tries to lower that the motor does move. etc. etc.

3. you MUST test the SET state and setting functionality thoroughly. you MUST consider all cases that could occur and combinations 
and sequences of users setting both limits and/or moving the roof in between setting them and making sure everything works in a 
reasonable way. 

4. you MUST test the FAULT state behavior thoroughly. 

5. throughout all of the above you MUST make sure that what is stored into the FRAM makes sense and is reasonable. And make sure 
that whatever is written in any of those cases would also make sense if the system was power cycled and had to read those values again. 
in other words, make sure the positions stored in FRAM don't become de-synced with reality. 

6. you MUST test the wraparound behavior in the PCNT units is working properly in both directions. 

7. you MUST test a simulated case where the motors don't respond exactly the same because they each see different loads. you MUST 
test that the algorithm we have deisgned to adjust throttle based on relative positions still works in a reasonable way.  this 
can result in many test cases. I want to be absolutely sure the algorithm we have is stable and behaves as expected. 

8. you MUST test edge cases and failure modes. 

9. verify that if it's in FAULT state, that if I just clear the state back to WAIT without actually manually jogging the motors back 
in sync that it'll immediately go back into FAULT state.

10. Since these tests actually run on the ESP32, you MUST create an actual realistic entire routine from startup to power cycle to 
resuming usage. this means you MUST work in to this routine lifting, lowering, setting both limits, lifting and lowering past those 
limits and setting the limits again. power cycling (starting fresh) and resuming and reading the FRAM for real. As in actually 
verifying that the FRAM module is functional.

11. You MUST make mock or fake versions of the 4 motors that behave as if they were under different loads and vary in their actual 
movement speeds in response to the same level of throttle and with varying but realistic response curves to different throttle 
levels. you MUST write an integration test that uses these fake / mock motors to test out the entire system from lifting up through 
its entire range to lowering. You MUST simulate cases where the algorithm we have for the floating midpoint can address the different 
motor responses. you MUST also write test cases where we test triggering the FAULT state because the fake/mock motor is stuck.


I expect dozens and dozens of tests. you MUST be extremely thorough with the sequences and combinations of user input and motor 
behavior. You MUST also write unit tests that test the various modules and functions individually and in isolation, mocking 
any external dependencies as needed. 